Hey, Dustin. Hey, YouTube.
Hey, Michael. Hey, YouTube. I guess this is new.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So thanks for people who are here.
Throw some comments into the live chat. And with that, we'll kick it off.
Dustin, welcome back to Talk Python To Me.
Yeah, it's great to be back. Good to see you.
Yeah, good to see you as well. It's lovely to have you back.
I'm glad to have you back.
We talked about PyPA and the Python Packaging Authority.
We talked about PyPI and all these things previously
and we're back to talk about them some more
with a particular focus on security.
Yeah, which is kind of my new focus on my day-to-day,
my job hat, my PSF hat, all that stuff.
Yeah, that's really cool.
It's fantastic when the job that you're paid to do
lines up with these other things, right?
You can kind of learn on the job,
and then it really applies quickly.
So maybe let's just start there.
You're at Google working on security there.
Maybe tell us about what you're up to and how it ties together.
- Yeah, so I think last time we talked,
I was working for Google Cloud as a dev advocate.
And so that was a lot of like--
I think people mostly know me from that,
a lot of conference talks and things like that.
But since then, I've switched to a brand new team at Google
that I'm really excited about, and I think
is just really exciting in general.
We're an open source security team.
And we don't work just on Google's open source libraries
or whatever, but we just generally broadly
work on open source security across the entire open source
ecosystem, and not just the Python ecosystem,
but every open source ecosystem.
So we have our hand in a lot of pots.
And I think you're probably aware
is this incredible wave of focus on software security,
but also open source software security.
And so we're kind of riding that wave a little bit,
but yeah, it's a dream team.
Everyone I work with is super talented
and we're working on some really interesting
new security stuff and yeah, really love it.
- I bet it's very exciting
and you also have a chance to make a big impact, right?
- Oh yeah, for sure.
I've been working kind of tangentially on software security
ever since I started working on PyPI
and I cared about it for a long time.
But it's like really, I think it's validating
to sort of see that like, oh, now everyone kind of gets it.
Like everyone's like, oh, this is the thing
we need to focus and make better.
So it's cool to be there and be like ready to do it,
and have the tools to like make it happen.
- Yeah, absolutely.
Have a lot of resources behind you
through Google and the team and so on.
- Absolutely, like an incredible amount of resources.
Yeah.
I can't-- yeah, most people probably don't fully
appreciate it, right?
>>Tom: Yeah.
>>Kyle: Yeah, so that is fantastic.
The other thing that you're doing
is working as the director of the PSF, right?
>>Tom: Well, not the director.
So the PSF has a board of directors.
So I would-- I call myself--
>>Kyle: I see.
>>Tom: --one of the directors of the PSF.
>>Kyle: Right, got it.
I got it.
Got it.
So yeah, tell us about your role at PSF.
>>Tom: Yeah, yeah.
board I think it was about two years ago because we just had an election. And so we sit for
three-year terms. So I've got another year left before I have to run again. But yeah,
it's been really nice to sort of like work on the PSF from the inside and do some community
stuff. It's been a really weird time to join the board as well. Like PSF, it was like right
at the start of the pandemic. And like the PSF derives most of its income from events
like PyCon, like a lot of its income. And that was always sort of like identified as
as kind of an existential threat to the PSF,
but it very much became a reality very quickly.
And so there was a lot of work done before I joined
and after I joined as well to adapt to that.
And I think PSF did an amazing job.
We actually did really well,
partly in thanks to all of our sponsors and donors
that still continue to step it up
even though we weren't doing an in-person PyCon.
We did a bunch of virtual PyCons.
They went pretty well.
Not quite as fun for me.
I like to see folks in person, but yeah,
we, I think made it through the other side amazingly.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, it's been great.
We got a really great board now.
We just brought on a couple of new folks as well.
And I'm really excited to see what we're gonna do
for the next couple of years.
- I don't know that people fully appreciate
how important PyCon is to the existence
and financial wellbeing of the PSF.
Maybe elaborate a bit on that.
- Yeah, I think the statistic, maybe at its peak,
PyCon's revenue was about 85%
of the operating budget of the PSF.
So like almost all of the money that the PSF needs
to like run and operate, which means pay staff,
pay for infrastructure, all that kind of stuff,
came from ticket sales for PyCon.
And that also includes--
- Sponsorship money and things like that.
- Yeah, yeah, it's a little gray
because like there are sponsors
And they both sponsor PyCon and sponsor the PSF.
And that money just gets used by the PSF.
But yeah, a lot of that sponsorship
is really tied to the in-person event.
So one thing we've done recently is,
if you're not a PSF sponsor, you should go psf.org/sponsor.
And there's a new menu for sponsorship.
And we adapted it in a way that's not exactly focused.
You don't have to show up to PyCon to be a PSF sponsor.
And still, you'll get a lot of benefit from it,
including supporting things like PyPI
and other infrastructure projects.
- There's a bit of a,
it seems like a bit of a wave of large companies coming in
and properly sponsoring the PSF.
And I don't know if this is in reaction
to what happened with PyCon and COVID,
or it just happens to be the timing and the growth,
and especially the growth of Python
in a more business corporate sense.
Yeah, I think it's a couple things.
One is that like, PSF very much needs the support, right?
And I think that's made obvious to the organizations that use Python and our infrastructure like
PyPI.
The other thing is, I think a lot of organizations are taking open source as like a dependency
a lot more seriously.
So making sure that they're like in some way contributing or, you know, providing support
for the infrastructure tools, software that they use.
I think the other thing that I want to call out here is the PSF staff is incredible.
They've done an amazing job about making it really an attractive thing to be a sponsor
of the PSF and also following through on our commitments or organizations' commitments
to us, our commitments to them, that kind of thing.
And finding new and interesting ways to get funding as well.
We started doing an interesting thing a couple of years ago where we started applying for
grants for work on PyPI.
I think that's actually our first podcast was about some funded work that I got hired
to do as a contractor.
And then we kind of repeated that.
And we brought in a ton of money to fund really big stuff.
Big stuff that a volunteer would never get done in a year on weekends.
It's just never going to happen that a volunteer is going to sit down and have the time to
do this.
So it's been really successful in terms of shipping stuff that users need that's big,
skills stuff. Yeah, it's it seems a little bit like in the past, but when you go to PyPI.org,
this is still kind of shiny new, right? It got rewritten a couple years ago and polished up and
made a lot more modern, right? Yeah, yeah. I think 2018 we launched this and so it hasn't changed
really, you know, visually much since then. A lot of new features and development and like
the whole point behind the rewrite was to make it a lot easier to build on top of.
PyPI was ancient, essentially. It predated everything on PyPI. It was kind of wacky, but
yeah, it's super modern now, which is cool. It's more sustainable now as well. We have
better commitments from our in-kind donors for infrastructure. Shout out to Fastly that pays
our entire infrastructure bill and is an amazing sponsor of PyPI. But also, we had just hired an
infrastructure engineer to work on PyPI, which is super exciting, and PyPI and other PSF
infrastructure as well. And yeah, it's just a little more sustainable than it used to be.
We have better core volunteers, moderators, all that kind of stuff.
>> We talked back in 2018, I think maybe you and Donald stuffed, I don't remember if you all were
were on together, those were two separate shows.
But you were both involved.
And one of the challenges was PyPI, the web app,
was so bespoken, sort of its own tangled mess
that people would want to contribute.
And they'd be like, you know what?
Now that I see this, maybe not so much.
And it sounds like it's in a better place.
We have some peps that we're going
to talk about extending some of its functionality
and those sorts of things, which is probably
a spin-off of just making it easier to work with.
- Yeah, I mean, yeah.
We did a full stack rewrite for our reasons
because it's easier to maintain for us,
it's easier to contribute to for other users,
easier to propose new changes.
And I think maybe the undertone for this entire interview
is there needs to be progress, right?
We can't just get to a point where it's just,
that's it, that's good.
There's just gonna be, it's a constantly shifting landscape.
So if we, the PSF, we, PyPI, want to be,
continue to be successful and popular,
and Python is doing amazing right now,
we have to adapt to that to some extent.
- Yeah, it's not the same world it was built for
when it first came out,
and also this 393,000 packages
is probably not something that was expected
when this whole idea was put together.
- Yeah, I mean, it's scaled impressively well,
I think, over the years.
almost 4 million individual releases,
like 6 million visual artifacts.
Like, that's a lot.
That's a lot of stuff.
>> I've just noticed there is some serious construction
below me that I did not think was going to be very loud.
Just for a moment, I think.
So if you're listening live, I apologize.
We'll edit this out.
But yeah, anyway.
So if I go quiet for just a second,
that's because of a saw or something.
Anyway, let's talk just a bit about
the whole infrastructure side, not the tech or anything.
We've covered that before and it was really interesting,
but just how much data and expense there is
to run this thing.
- Yeah, so I wrote a blog post sometime last year
and it was gonna be essentially a five-year update
from a previous post that Donald,
who's one of the other PyPI maintainers,
written about just like what it takes to power PyPI and it has some statistics in it that are at
this point out of date. But like, yeah, we serve like almost, I think at this point over 2 billion
requests a day. We transfer like more than 60 terabytes from PyPI.org and that doesn't include
files. So when we serve the actual files, actual distributions, that's like
almost a thousand terabytes a day, like per day.
That's a lot.
It's like, if we had to pay--
- A thousand terabytes?
- Yeah, if we had to pay like retail costs
for our bandwidth from our CDN.
So like almost like 99% of PyPI is served from CDN.
It would be in the millions of dollars.
Like it's a substantial infrastructure cost
just to like serve the files, serve the requests.
So yeah, and it's not going down.
It's not plateauing either.
It's definitely going up,
which is good in the sense that, yeah, we want it to be popular,
but there's sustainability questions that come with that as well as we grow,
just sort of unfettered, you know? Yeah, figuring that out.
Honestly, that kind of blows my mind. I'm just wondering,
what would you possibly do if you didn't have companies like Fastly
really supporting?
Yeah. I mean, honestly,
it would be very hard to keep PyPI running
if we didn't have the support of all our sponsors.
And I think it's really important to make this distinction
between PyPI and other indexes, like NPM, for example,
which is owned by a massive corporation
and has a whole support staff,
has a whole engineering staff.
PyPI is like a couple folks
and a bunch of donated stuff, you know?
And it's on the same scale,
and as useful as something like NPM.
So, yeah.
Yeah.
Okay, well, when I think about how PyPI and NPM and RubyGems
and this is not to focus on, like to call out Python,
but just all of these.
It reminds me of the early internet back when we were,
not maybe when we didn't have passwords,
but when it was kind of like,
"Oh, well, just, we don't really need encryption here."
And it was from a time when things were simpler
and it feels like it's getting a little more complicated
security wise and so on.
- Oh yeah, definitely.
I mean, there was a point when,
me as a PyPI maintainer administrator,
like we never had to respond to takedowns
for like malicious stuff.
Like it just never happened.
And now it's like my inbox is on fire
because I get multiple reports a day.
Yeah, yeah.
I mean, it's like, I think part of it is like
people are trying to hit security bounties
and do like research with PyPI,
which is not the intended use case for PyPI,
but yeah, it's a lot.
Like it's definitely, there's an uptick.
- So yeah, there's been a lot of talk on the internet
about things that might fix it,
like signing packages and whatnot,
but we'll talk about whether that actually has anything
to offer there.
One thing I did want to give a quick shout out to is,
is this the one?
Yeah, there's from the OpenSFF.
They just gave some big donation
to make PyPI a little bit better, right?
So they committed $400,000 to in order to create a new role.
Tell us a bit about this.
What is this?
- Yeah, they're very excited to announce
that they're planning to support us with a new role.
So it hasn't been--
- Hasn't been finalized.
- Contract hasn't been signed yet.
No, no, like a fairly new organization,
bunch of member organizations,
including Google, Microsoft, whatever,
to essentially support software security, right?
And so they're just kind of getting started pretty recently.
And I think their marketing team kind of outpaced
the like legal team here.
So we haven't signed the contract yet,
but it's like, you know, I feel confident saying that like,
this is probably almost definitely gonna happen.
So yeah, they committed, I think $400,000
to doing a developer in residence that's security focused.
And so this is sort of like piggybacking on something
that I helped start two years ago at this point,
which is create the CPython developer in residence.
So that was started with funding from Google
and Luca Schlanga became the CPython developer in residence.
And like, I love to see this because like,
I'm very happy to say Google is not the sponsor
of CPython developer in residence this year, it's Facebook.
And like, that's great because like,
I think this is something that can be shared
by all the PSF sponsors, you know,
funding it each year, that kind of thing.
So in a similar way, we're gonna ideally hire someone
that will focus on just security for Python.
That might be security for CPython,
that might be security for PyPI.
They also want, I think, to fund a security audit
of some like critical tooling for Python ecosystem.
That might be PyPI TBD.
So, but yeah, this is super cool.
And yeah, they've also like announced funding
for some other organizations like Eclipse Foundation.
- Right.
>> This is fantastic news.
And it's too bad that it's not signed yet,
but it sounds like it's definitely going to happen.
And when it becomes official, I'll
give it another shout out just to say thanks,
because this is going to probably make a big difference.
That's a big chunk of money to contribute to it.
>> Yeah, and I think similar to the CPython Developer
Residence role, we're going to do interviews and audit
and hire someone for that role.
So there'll be a job posting if this happens.
And then I'll be definitely tweeting, sharing that,
trying to get people to get interested and apply
because this is a super cool role.
- Yeah, it sure is.
All right, let's talk about 2FA.
That's been a bit of a flashpoint
and I don't feel like it should have, but it has been.
What's the story with 2FA and critical packages
- Yeah, Flashpoint, almost unexpected for me.
I think I'm just so close to security space
and PyPI and all that stuff that,
I think the reaction was a little stronger
than I think everyone expected.
So yeah, so what happened?
- Yeah, sorry, go ahead.
Well, I was gonna say, it feels to me
like the reaction was,
if you had set up a rule, if you had set up a rule that said,
Hey, you can't have the letter a as your password and everyone
has the letter a, you have to change it.
It's like, it's almost like that level of requirement change to me.
It feels like, and yet it just, it just blew up.
Right.
Yeah.
I, yeah.
Well, let me give some background and then like, we can talk about
like realistically what it means.
So yeah, we, we made an announcement and, basically that we were
we're going to designate some projects on PyPI as critical.
And essentially we determine this based on download count,
'cause that's kind of like, it's not a great metric,
but it's kind of the best metric we have for determining
like if this project was compromised,
and I'll talk about like how that might happen,
you know, how many people would be affected.
And it's like, if we measure the amount of times
that this is getting downloaded a day,
that's a pretty good proxy for like impact
in terms of something being compromised.
- Right.
we made this designation and we announced
that at some point in the future--
did not announce a date, did not enforce a requirement
at this point--
we're going to ask those maintainers to require
that 2FA is enabled for their account.
And so we did that, and then we paired this with an incentive.
My team at Google actually funded the purchase
of a bunch of Titan security keys.
These are hardware keys for two-factor authentication
that Google manufactures, but we just
Essentially, we give away discount codes
to these maintainers of projects
that have been designated as critical,
and they can get not one, but two for free.
So if they're one of these maintainers.
So yeah, we did that, and the designation was 1%.
We decided the top 1% of projects would be,
at this point, designated as critical.
- Right.
I feel like there was a bit of a confusion
when people saw this announcement.
I saw, wait a minute, you're making me adopt hardware-based 2FA
because I have a PyPI package.
The requirement is not that you have to use the hardware keys
if you have a critical package, is it?
- Nope.
And like, I would love if everyone used hardware keys
because I think they're generally considered
to be a little bit more secure,
but no, the idea is that everyone should turn on 2FA
and that's, PyPI supports, you know, TOTP,
which is like what you're used to,
via like the free applications on the phone or other device
and security keys.
So like, and security keys is pretty broad now
that doesn't just include the like USB devices,
but also like you can do a web auth
and via like phones and like other physical hardware.
Like it's pretty, you know,
the integration with browsers is pretty good now.
So this is a lot of support.
- Yeah, just like the audience out there,
Michael is asking, do they need to be hardware keys
or just regular auth?
It's just regular auth, right?
And that's why I said, I don't feel like it's
that big of a deal.
It's like, well, you have to have a secure password,
or you have to have QFA, or whatever.
Yeah, yeah.
So I think the immediate reaction
from some folks with really big megaphones,
essentially, was that this is a slippery slope.
PyPI is asking something of its users.
And we don't do that very often.
We let users do whatever they want.
And we have some baseline requirements
for how to use PyPI.
but we don't like often ask people to do extra stuff.
But there's a good reason why we're interested
in asking people to do 2FA.
And it's not because like Google has secretly conspired
to like do it so that it's on open source security.
You know, like it--
- Yeah, there was a whole undercurrent,
a whole thread of, well, it's these big corporate companies
that are adopting Python that are making us
do different security to support them.
And that wasn't it at all, was it?
No, no. I mean, so here's the here's the main reason.
Right. And like that's that is valid.
Right. Like there are big corporations that consume stuff from the IPA.
They would love to have more assurances about like that their projects haven't
been compromised. I don't think 2FA is like exactly the right way to do that.
At the end of the day, 2FA like it protects against like two kind of critical
attacks that could happen on a Python package.
One is just like phishing. Right.
Like 2FA is essentially completely eliminates the potential to get phished.
And I've never seen someone get phished on PyPI.
I've never heard about phishing attack,
but PyPI is as susceptible as a bank
or anything else for phishing.
Like it could happen to anybody.
So that's one thing.
The other thing is maybe more specific to PyPI itself,
which is what we call domain resurrection attacks.
So developers really love their vanity,
their domains, their personal domains,
their personal email addresses.
And so unlike maybe your bank,
like the users on PyPI are more likely to have these
like one-off domains and those domains like expire.
People forget about them.
They lose access to them.
They get registered by someone else.
And when that email address has the ability
to reset a password on a PyPI account,
an attacker can like keep an eye on your domain,
watch when it expires, go and register it,
do a password reset, and then take over your account
and publish whatever they want.
And so 2FA in similar way to phishing
protects against that attack as well.
- And I had never really thought about that.
That's almost like the SIM card.
- Yeah, a little bit.
- Equivalent, but for email.
So the SIM card problem is I could call up,
you know, my, I could call up,
I could call up someone else's phone provider
and say, I lost my SIM card.
Please issue me a new one.
And then you start getting their SMS
for like SMS authentication and stuff.
This is, you've taken over their domain, not maliciously.
they just decided to,
and their credit card expired or something.
And then you snatch it up,
set up some MX records and off you go.
Okay.
- Yeah, yeah.
So like, and so again, like our ultimate goal,
like PyPI's administrators,
I'd love to protect all users from, you know,
attacks that could be prevented from 2FA,
but it's a little bit more like, you know,
like it's actually for our own benefit, right?
Those kinds of attacks.
So one has happened recently,
The CTX package had a domain takeover
and a malicious release published.
And we wrote a very long incident about it.
It took a lot of our time.
And we essentially like,
it's not sustainable for these to happen.
We can't, we don't have a support team.
We can't do, manually remove these packages
and monitor things for like,
we just can't handle it.
So 2FA is like us, the folks that maintain PyPI
asking users like, "Hey, help us out a little bit.
just do this thing for us to like kind of cut down
on the potential for this and make it easier for us
to do things that like we actually want to do to PyPI
and not just like respond to security incidents.
- Right, because there's only a couple of you.
And if you're spending all your time putting out these fires
you're not adding JSON endpoints
and other beneficial things.
- Yeah, yeah, all sorts of stuff.
Like, yeah, the more time we spend putting out fires
the less we can do like useful
and interesting things to PyPI.
- Yeah, so why 1% of the top packages?
Why is that critical?
And also, what's the designation over time?
>>The designation is if at any point it was in the top 1%.
And I think we re-compete this every day.
So projects have, since we announced this,
they've moved into the 1% because it's constantly shifting.
But yeah, why 1%?
So that's a question that was coming up
a lot in the discussion after we made this announcement.
And the secret to the 1% is that in reality,
you were to go and figure out, OK, how much traffic,
how many downloads does this 1% of packages
actually represent for PyPI?
It's over 95%.
It's close to 99%.
It's like most of what people are using from PyPI
is in this 1%.
So by saying 1%, we also essentially
said, for the long tail of PyPI that people aren't using,
we care a little bit less about that.
We're going to cover the majority of these.
Like I said, the potential for impact
if something was compromised, we sort of maximize that.
And we also kind of had to minimize that 1% too,
because I think another thing that folks didn't really
realize about what it takes to support 2FA
is that there's an incredible maintenance burden for 2FA.
We have to handle account recovery requests,
because people, they lose their phones,
they lose their hardware keys.
People are humans, right?
And so this happens all the time.
And it's expensive for us to handle this.
And we can't just say, all right, great, you lost 2FA.
I turned it off for your account.
Go wild.
Because that's essentially a perfect way
to circumvent 2FA.
Instead, we have to do this very manual process where
we verify other identities, emails.
If you have a GitHub associated, we
ask you to do something on GitHub
to prove that you own that account.
And even then, it's really not perfect.
There is potential for someone to be compromised
who did have 2FA enabled by someone who
could take over this account or that account
and then pretend like they need an account recovery.
But yeah, this is a huge maintenance burden.
So we actually can barely handle account recovery requests
right now.
And I'm a little wary of how many
we're going to get now that folks have started really
turning on 2FA.
But we're--
>>Victor: Maybe that's probably why 1% and not 100%, right?
>>Chance: Oh, yeah.
There's zero chance we could handle 100% of everyone on PyPI
with 2FA enabled.
we just couldn't handle it.
I would love that, that would be great.
But yeah, unfortunately, the amount of people
losing their stuff and having to come to us for resets,
it's just, the burden is really high.
- Sure, for me, I used Authy for my 2FA,
which syncs across devices.
So at least if I lose one, I get it back.
- Yeah, yeah, and Google Authenticator works really well
for TOTP as well.
And I think you can download the codes
store them externally as well.
So if you lose your phone, you can regain access
to those TOTP codes as well.
And there's a bunch, like, there's also like
emulated TOTP stuff where you can like
run it on your laptop.
It's not like, maybe not technically true, true factor,
but like a lot of people use that
'cause it's more convenient.
- Yeah, it's way better than nothing.
- It's all better than nothing, exactly.
- Let's talk about James Bennett and opinions.
You called out this article and I also read this.
I think this is really good.
What are some of your takeaways here?
Yeah, James absolutely nailed the response here.
And actually, we got a lot of feedback.
And I'm not going to say that it was bad feedback.
It was maybe somewhat uninformed feedback,
or it was somewhat sensational feedback.
But we got a lot of feedback after this.
And some of it was totally valid.
At the end of the day, we are asking users
to take a little more effort.
And some people, they don't want to do that.
And none of the PyPI administrators
actually explicitly responded to a lot of this.
I think we were all a little bit depressed about how upset
some people were about the 2FA requirement that
didn't even exist yet.
But yeah, James, really, shout out to James.
Because I read this, and I was like,
I really could not have written it better than he did.
Yeah, he--
There's a lot there, and I think it's very well thought out.
Yeah.
Yeah, it was great.
Yeah, shout out to James.
Yeah, I think there was kind of two arguments
that he was making, which is that a lot of people
were concerned this would be a slippery slope.
And I don't really foresee IPA making too many more mandates
about stuff like this, not because of the feedback,
but because we're never going to--
I don't think we're ever going to mandate signing,
for example.
That's always going to be the option of the maintainer.
But things like 2FA for certain high-profile stuff
Like, yeah, it really helps out,
helps PyPI continue to exist, right?
Like that's actually the motivation here.
- Well, and I definitely wanna echo the message
that you said about the overhead.
- Yeah, yeah.
- You have to deal, the people who would otherwise
be constructively working on this
have to deal with these problems.
- Yeah, every day.
I mean, it's like, I don't get paid to do it.
I do it out of love, but yeah,
it becomes larger and larger every day.
And yeah, we're keeping our head above water right now.
But yeah, there's plans also to make that better.
But yeah.
How much do you think the reaction--
I'll put it out there.
I think the overreaction was of how much do you
think that was perceived as it's got to be a hardware key versus
it's just straight 2FA?
Do you think people rejected it being 2FA?
Or did it seem like a bigger burden
than just adding it to your Google Authenticator?
- Yeah, I think, so if I were to say that,
whether we made some sort of failure here
when we announced it, I would say like,
we didn't message this super well, right?
And that's because I'm a software engineer,
I'm not a marketer or, you know, I'm an okay communicator.
And the same is true for the rest of us.
We don't have copyrightrs, anything like that.
We don't have a PR team.
So, yeah, there was some stuff that people kind of missed.
And I think one of the things was missed was like,
the mandate doesn't exist right now.
We're just talking about enforcing it in the future.
The other was like, what is actually being required
of you today, which for most folks, it was nothing.
It was like, if you want to get a pair of free security keys
you have to do this today.
And by the way,
- I'm sure you all saw this as a positive,
like, Hey, we got this cool thing for people
that they can get if they want, or they just need to a FAA.
But like, people were like, what is this?
Yeah, you're saying there's still some available
for folks who want to get it, right?
- Yeah, so through October 1st.
So yeah, if you, this is my,
be my call out at the end as well.
But yeah, if you go to pypi.org/security-key-giveaway,
you can check if you're a critical maintainer
and you can get a key, get a pair of keys actually.
Yeah, so the pair of keys thing also,
people weren't really sure why we were doing that,
but the main reason is to help you not lose both of them,
like lose all access.
So if you have two keys and you've used both of them,
yeah, you have some redundancy.
- You can stick it in the garage
or stick it somewhere else,
hand it to a friend, keep it in the backyard.
- Yeah, exactly, exactly.
There was, and I guess part of the reason
this is so much in the public awareness
is because of this project called Atomic Rights.
- Yes.
- (laughs)
- Wanna give me the, give us all the rundown
of why we're talking about this package?
I mean, let me just give people a really quick background.
Atomic Rights is a package that lets you,
within a with block, like you would do open file,
but instead you say atomic write,
and it will write to a temporary file
and only commit those changes to the real file,
like at the very end, all in one shot.
Pretty useful, not super hard to do your own version of
with a couple of built-in things in Python,
like files and what, but still.
- It's kind of no longer necessary for modern Python
is my understanding.
Like this is a couple of lines of like modern Python,
you don't have to worry about it,
but it used to be something that you would use maybe.
- Right, exactly.
- Yeah, so--
- How does this relate to 2FA?
That has nothing to do with 2FA, does it?
- Well, there's this thing that happens all the time, right?
Like, so PyPI has this policy that everything on PyPI
is essentially immutable.
And that means that like individual files, file names,
which can include a project name, a version,
and like a distribution type, those are immutable.
So if you upload something to PyPI
that is like a source distribution
for some version or whatever,
You publish that, it's there, you can't overwrite it.
You can't surreptitiously change what that points to.
So anyone installing that is always gonna get
the same thing, same SHA, everything.
But that also means if you wanna delete something,
you delete it and it's gone forever.
You can't come back and overwrite it with something else.
And so, and I don't encourage people to delete stuff
from PyPI generally because you're almost definitely
gonna break somebody.
There's better methods for marking something
as not useful and telling pip to not install it.
That's our yanking, which is a whole PEP into itself.
But yeah, so this thing happens all the time though.
Like we have a huge warning banner, big red button,
like everything telling you,
if you're gonna delete this thing,
you're not gonna be able to get it back.
And so what happened here is like this maintainer
didn't wanna comply with 2FA.
Their project was marked as critical
because a lot of people were using it,
like a lot of people were using it still.
And they thought that it'd be a cool,
they thought they'd discovered a cool hack
where if they deleted it and then recreated it later,
that mandate would no longer apply.
And that was kind of true, because like I said,
our computation for critical projects runs once a day.
So when they brought it back, it didn't have that flag.
Within 24 hours, that flag was added back
to the project, essentially.
But for a brief period of time, yeah,
it was not marked as critical.
But what happened was all these versions went away.
And a lot of people, I think, were depending on them.
actually users of this project.
And so, yeah, like there's a long discussion happening now
about whether like it should even be possible
to delete stuff from PyPI.
And there's good arguments on both sides of the coin, right?
- Yeah, well, that was one of my first thoughts is like,
wait, you can delete the releases?
I knew they were immutable, you can't update them,
but deleting, so what's the trade off there?
Why can you delete them now?
And maybe why wouldn't you in the future?
- Well, I mean, yeah, this is like the MPMs left pad
incident essentially, like we, right now there's potential
for a high profile enough, and this package wasn't super
high profile, but like it was in the critical list.
It was in the top 1%.
There's potential for some maintainer to decide,
and it's their prerogative right now, right?
Like there's no guarantees that these things continue
to exist on IP.
I know one's necessarily paying for this.
So like, yeah, maintainer absolutely has the ability now
to just wipe something super popular and necessary
off the face of IPI.
And that's the current status quo.
It's not the same in a lot of other ecosystems.
Some of them don't have that policy.
Some of them do.
But yeah, so there's a bit of debate
about whether that should be necessary,
especially when we have stuff like yanking, which actually
is kind of a more meaningful way to remove something.
Yeah.
So let's suppose somebody palettes or whatever,
erases Flask tomorrow.
- David, don't do it.
- David, please keep going, man.
Is there a way to get a hold of the actual wheels and stuff
as a community and put it back up
under a potentially a different name?
Or is it just gone?
How seriously gone is it when it's gone?
- So yeah, nothing published to PyPI is actually gone.
So we don't actually, unless we're like legally required to,
we don't delete any actual files off of our data store.
So like the bucket that everything goes into,
everything that's ever been published to PyPI
is still there.
And so this actually played out.
It's good that we have this in a couple instances
'cause this is what exactly we used
in this case of atomic rights.
'cause the maintainer was like, "Oh, I made a mistake."
And they were like, kind of humble.
They were like, "Yeah, okay, this was a mistake.
I shouldn't have done this."
And then asked us to essentially restore
the project from scratch.
And we don't really have mechanisms to do that, right?
That's not something that we do often.
I think I can only remember maybe once
when we've done that before, maybe not even once.
And we generally just don't do this.
Like if you delete something, we say it's gone.
Like you need to publish a new version.
But in this case, we did decide to take the time.
I think it took Donald like almost an hour to do this
'cause it's a super manual process.
But yeah, the files are still there.
- Something you don't do very often, right?
- Yeah, no, no, like almost-
- How can I even do this?
- Yeah, so like the files are still there
and they're still like externally addressable too.
So they're always gonna be available.
And like if something like that happened,
David don't do it, but like if something like that happened,
I think folks would probably be okay.
We'd find ways around it.
But yeah, I mean, it's a strong argument
for not allowing it to happen.
And when people publish stuff to PyPI,
like our TOS is essentially,
you give us the right to distribute this
as we see fit forever.
So, PyPI is within its right,
but there's just arguments for giving maintainers
the ability to do it for various reasons.
Yeah.
- Has there been any thoughts to putting
like levels of what pip will install?
For example, I'm thinking like,
I wanna set up my pip though,
it will only accept things that have 2FA set up
or it will only accept things
with a certain number of downloads.
Like I can only pip install something
with 10,000 or more downloads.
Because maybe I'm trying to avoid typosquatting
for very edge case things.
In that general realm, have you all thought about this?
Probably you have. - Yeah, definitely.
- What are some of the-- - We have it on our list
to talk about later, but yeah,
I mean, there's definitely potential, right?
there's all sorts of signals that you could potentially
take into account here.
You know, TBD, like how meaningful some of them
actually will be or how much that will actually protect you.
But yeah, people have talked about like essentially
defining a policy for what they'll consume
and either having that be part of PIP
or something external.
Yeah, it's definitely been discussed.
- Okay.
You know, for example, like the web browsers,
you can have no blocking,
you can have block third-party cookies,
you can block third-party cookies and trackers.
And you can decide like how broken do I want my web to be versus how safe do I want my web to be?
I feel like there might be something like that in the pipe world.
I think the reality, at least right now, is that any kind of policy like that would
not be enforceable because there's going to be some edge case, some dependency that's super old
or whatever. Like, you know, Python is not nearly as bad as an ecosystem like NPM in terms of like
breadth of dependencies for a given thing, right?
It's like maybe--
- Usually the dependencies are like thicker, right?
You don't have a-- - Right, yeah.
- Like three lines of code you're depending on,
you just put that in your code.
- It does exist, but yeah, generally no.
But so that's sort of like, but even still,
like I think you'd have a hard time saying like,
I'm gonna only consume packages that have 2FA enabled
because there's so few of them right now.
If all that's, you know, the tooling and stuff
for that exists. - Sure, sure.
- Okay, well, interesting.
So this Atomics Write story, everything was put back,
but it just, it shows unintended consequences.
- And kind of ironic too, actually,
'cause like PyPI is an open source project as well.
And like, you know, people were upset
that we were making demands of users to do a certain thing,
but like at the end of the day,
someone's making demands of us to use our time
in ways that we don't want to.
So yeah, it's trade-offs.
- I saw a Gency James Bennett's article, right?
A lot of those ideas were really well spelled out there.
- Yeah, absolutely.
- Yeah.
- Yeah, I think people forget that it's a volunteer
open source project and not like--
- I thought it was this conglomerate of corporate overlords.
- Shadowy support.
- So this is what I got from Reddit.
What's this PyPI 2FA dashboard here?
This looks pretty cool.
Tell us about this project.
- I'll link it in the show notes.
- I'm gonna switch to like, switch to like the top right,
switch to like past three months or something like that.
Yeah. - Okay.
- You can really see the bump there.
So yeah, this is the dashboard we put together
essentially for us to monitor how the rollout for 2FA
and security key giveaway was going.
But we made it public, so like anyone can check this out
and I think we'll put link in the show notes.
But yeah, the numbers are great.
The one thing this isn't actually showing
is how many security keys we've given away.
So we've, at this point, like I just checked earlier,
we've given away more than 500 keys, which is awesome.
And it's only a fraction of what we have to give away.
So I would really, like if anyone listening wants a key
and has a critical project, like go and get the keys.
And we'll find something to do with those keys
if we don't give them all away by the time
they expire in October.
But yeah, so a bunch of keys given away.
We also, I didn't mention this, but like as part of this,
we also turned on a feature that allowed any project
to manually require 2FA for all their maintainers.
So like anyone that just wasn't critical
and wanted to opt into this, they could do that too.
So I think 300, almost 300 projects have done that.
And then we're almost like,
we're so close to hitting 30,000 users on PyPI
with a two-factor enabled, which is huge.
And that's up from like 27,000 before we did the giveaway.
- Cool.
Well, I was one of the 27,000 before
because my packages on PyBI are not super significant,
but they are there.
And so I definitely put 2FA on there
and just have it running through my phone basically.
- Appreciate that.
- Yeah, so people can go and see the progress here
of how it's coming along.
- Yeah, and how many projects we've classified
is critical, right?
Like how many is 1%?
Well, right now it's like almost 4,000 projects,
which is not a ton,
but there's a lot of maintainers of those projects.
- Sure.
Well, two things that are interesting.
One is I think I can go to pypi.org and see 393,000
and say, well, 3,930 are probably critical, right?
I mean, it has that designation,
but as you said, it's computed over time.
So maybe there's something that was critical,
but is no longer, or something becomes critical, right?
So this number could sort of outpace the actual number
of just 1% of the total projects, yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, it will grow above 1% over time
because yeah, if something's been designated as critical,
it just retains that designation indefinitely.
And the other thing that we kind of snuck in here
is that like anything that's a dependency of PyPI itself
is also critical.
So we just figured that would be a good idea for us.
So yeah, there's a couple of projects
that maybe wouldn't normally be included,
but we include them because like we personally care.
- Is that like maybe Pyramid or stuff like that?
or something else. - I actually,
I don't know what-- - Human mice.
- Yeah, I don't know what the difference
between those two sets is necessarily,
but it would be interesting to figure out.
- But if there's anything that potentially wasn't,
then it is because of that.
Okay. - Yeah.
- The other thing that's interesting
is there's 8,400 users identified as critical,
even though there's 3,900 packages.
So I guess 'cause multiple people
can be designated as a maintainer, huh?
- Yeah, exactly.
So like, it looks like the average
is about two maintainers per critical project,
which is a little scary.
I think in that reality, there's a lot that just have one
and a lot that have a lot more, but.
- Yeah, it's a bimodal sort of distribution, right?
Like I say, a whole bunch by the one maintainer
than these groups of people, yeah.
- Yes, yeah. - Interesting.
Okay, this is cool.
So people can check this out and see how it's going.
This whole idea of critical and requiring 2FA,
this NPM is also doing something like this, right?
So it's not completely out of the blue.
- Yeah, I mean, a lot of organizations are doing it.
I think RubyGems said that they were working on a mandate
or had proposed one as well.
And yeah, NPM, they started with a pretty small cohort.
It's only the top hundred projects,
but they're gonna expand that.
And then the big one is,
I think a lot of people aren't aware of this,
but like GitHub announced that they are gonna require 2FA
for anyone that contributes code on GitHub,
which is like, I guess everyone that uses GitHub.
I don't know what the user is
that doesn't contribute code on GitHub,
but like, yeah, everyone's gonna have to have 2FA enabled.
It was just huge by the end of 2023.
So they have some time, but like,
- Yeah.
- I can't comprehend the size of the support team
they must be hiring right now to satisfy that.
'Cause that's like, it's crazy, you know?
- Yeah, well, probably a lot of support team
and a lot of automation that they're trying
to get in place to, here's what you gotta do, but.
- Yeah, and like-- - Yeah, it's gonna be high.
- The secret here is that like, we have a,
So via the OpenSSF, it has a bunch of work groups
and we have a new one that's pretty fun for me
'cause it's about securing software repositories,
but essentially, you know, like everyone
that maintains a software repository,
including folks from NPM, Crates, RubyGems,
like Maven Central, all that stuff.
They all, we all come and talk twice a week
or once every two weeks and, you know,
talk about this kind of stuff.
So like, we've been all talking about like 2FA mandates
for a while now and like kind of working on our plans
together and sharing notes and that kind of thing.
- Yeah, fantastic.
Yeah, I only think that there's probably some users
who just clone repos and post issues,
but don't really, don't do any check-ins.
They're just there to save a copy.
That's actually probably not the main use, right?
Probably the main use is people contributing
to their private repos or to maybe even less
- Yeah. - Or the public repos.
Mostly private repos, I would guess.
Okay, but yeah, that's gonna be a big, big deal.
And it also, I guess, leads us into
the whole supply integrity side of things, right?
'Cause it's one thing to say your account on PyPI
has to be shared with 2FA and better security.
But if somebody can just put in bad code
through a very complex PR that happens to sneak,
you know, a less than where there used to be a greater than,
you know, some weird, weird little edge case into a PR,
right, so, or take over somebody's GitHub account,
change the code and they don't realize it, right?
These, that's probably more likely
'cause there's no notification that you did your own commit
in a significant way, right?
So locking down GitHub will have really important
on effects for Python and all the other open source package locations, right?
Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I mean, and there's a lot of work being done here,
just in terms of like, making your source depository more secure and making your builds,
you know, if you're building artifacts on GitHub, making those more secure,
you know, making your publishing method more secure, like all of it is a ton of improvement.
Yeah.
Yeah. Like, I mean,
You don't want something sneaking in
to mix in some code in a CI stamp
or any of those types of things.
- Yeah, and there's just so many insertion points, right?
- Yes, exactly, exactly.
So I guess, what are some of the thoughts
on what can be done?
It used to be, this is kind of what I was going back to,
like, oh, there used to be this world with no encryption
and like lax or no passwords,
and now all of a sudden we need all this junk.
And I feel like there's a little bit of that
with people going, well, let's just try to abuse PyPI.
Let's try to abuse NPM and sneak in what we can.
And you maybe talk about some of the steps
you all have taken to mitigate that
and what you think can be done.
There's a lot of talk about package signing,
which I'm not so sure.
- Yeah.
- Straight up signing is how useful it is,
but yeah, maybe let's start at like,
whatever you thought about.
- I mean, I think the thing I want to start with
is just like, none of these is a panacea, right?
So I think one of the arguments that was raised
with the two-factor stuff was just like,
"Well, this isn't going to protect us from a vulnerability
or a maintainer going rogue."
It's like, "Yeah, no, obviously not.
There's not one thing that's going to protect you from that.
It's like there's a combination of features
that are going to protect you from a combination of threat actors or vectors.
And you have to use all of them if you want to feel fully protected."
So yeah, I think we just spent a lot of time talking about 2FA,
But like I said, it eliminates entire classes of attacks.
So like, please turn on 2FA.
Yeah, another one, like since we're talking about GitHub,
an interesting one is the security hardening with OIDC.
So you've heard of OIDC, it's OpenID Connect.
It's kind of built on OAuth protocol,
but essentially like it allows you to give things identity.
So like each individual GitHub action workflow,
like each run of the workflow
actually gets its own identity.
And that identity is like cryptographically verifiable.
So PyPI is, we're working on implementing support right now
and it will exist very soon
for what's essentially gonna be credentialless publication
from a GitHub Actions workflow.
- Okay.
- So that means like no password, no API token, nothing.
You essentially say, okay, I trust this workflow
and it has the ability to publish directly in a secure way.
It's super cool.
And then like a lot of other CI providers
are gonna implement, hopefully support for OODC as well.
So yeah, we'll hopefully see this in a bunch of places.
All right, so short-lived tokens directly
from your cloud provider.
Yeah, essentially.
It works for Google Cloud right now
as well and a couple of other things.
But yeah, it's essentially a way to verify
the identity of a really tightly scoped thing, like an actions
run, and then verify it and authenticate it and give it
the permission to do something like publish to PyPI.
- All right, yeah, this looks useful.
You mean handing out API keys
or embedding username passwords into CI/CD
doesn't sound like a great idea?
- Yeah, no, especially with stuff like CodeCove attack
and Travis CI had a similar attack
where all environment variables were exposed.
Everyone's gotta just go and roll everything at that point.
It's such a mess.
- Well, and it's one thing to say,
okay, we've got to reset your password, fine.
There is a race.
I mean, as soon as that happens,
there's a race from people looking to use those credentials
and you looking to not have them used by other than you.
But the real problem, I think,
is not the people who are paying attention.
It's probably the maintainer who set up some project
and hasn't touched it in a year
and hasn't checked their email.
They're just kind of not super engaged.
That could stay open for a super long time in a bad way.
- Exactly.
- All right, package signing.
Donald stuff talked about package signing
and said why package signing is not the Holy Grail.
People just say, it's a little bit like the 2FA stuff.
If you just sign your packages to prove they come from you,
everything is gonna be fine,
unless the person just goes rogue.
You can't protect from crazy.
There was one of the packages that got messed up.
I think it was on PyPI.
That same person was arrested for like
bomb making materials in New York.
- I don't know about this.
- See if I can find the article.
I'll see if I can find the article.
But it's like clearly that's not
a well-functioning sort of person.
And it doesn't matter if they sign the package
if they just go bonkers, you know?
- Yeah, that's true.
- Yeah, it's not the attack that we're trying to protect
against with signing, but yeah.
- Yeah, so what can signing help with
and what is it not gonna help us with?
- Well, yeah, that's great.
Yeah, Donald wrote this post that's kind of like
canon at this point for why package signing
is not the holy grail, but he's really talking about GPG,
well, why GPG signing is not the holy grail.
And there's like some really,
there's good points in here, right?
Like, so like you said, package signing doesn't protect
against an actual account compromise.
If someone compromised your GPG key,
they can sign whatever they want.
So there's no protections there.
And then there's other problems with GPG as well.
There's UX and usability issues.
There's issues with web of trust,
like actually establishing, okay, great.
You've signed this thing, but how do I establish
that the person that signed it
is actually a person that I trust
and not someone's providing me
with a malicious public key?
How do you actually do that?
And so, yeah, I think a lot of people don't know that.
- It's a little equivalent to, sorry,
it's a little equivalent to people saying,
well, just check that it's HTTPS for the URL.
Well, that's not identity, that's just like encryption.
- Yeah, you can still serve crap over HTTPS, yeah.
I think a lot of people also,
they don't realize that like PyPI has supported
uploading GPG signatures for like a very long time,
still does, hasn't gone away, and nobody does it.
It's just like, it's just not used, nobody does it.
It's too hard, tooling doesn't work right,
or it's just like not worth doing.
So yeah, I think Donald's post is right in the context
of a world-- and this is written in 2013--
so a world where only GBG is the only signing feature or signing
tooling that you have available.
But that's not true anymore.
And I'm really excited about this new tech called SigStor,
partly because I work with it.
People on my team work on it.
It's really interesting technology.
But SigStor is essentially a new way to sign things.
and it's not necessarily based on long-lived maintained keys.
It actually uses ephemeral keys.
Like when you sign something with Salesforce,
you generate a public private key pair,
you sign it very quickly and then you throw those away.
Like you don't actually maintain them.
They can't get leaked.
They don't ever get written to disk,
like nothing, they don't exist.
Yeah, so this is also based on--
- The chain of ownership of those keys,
the keys like provided by some other trusted key
or something that really is tied to you,
something like that?
- No, no, no.
Literally just a key that you've generated out of thin air, you sign it and then you throw it away.
So the way that SIGstore works, which is it's also built on top of OADC.
So you have these identities, right?
You have like your email, your Gmail account, your GitHub account, that kind of thing.
And they all offer like essentially an online identity.
You essentially sign with these identities instead.
So like, you sign into something like Gmail, sign into something like GitHub, you share this
identity with a certificate authority that SigStor runs, and this binds the identity to this like
one-time ephemeral private public key pair that you generated. And then that certificate is
published on a transparency lock, so it's there forever. There's a record of everything that gets
signed. But then like the thing that you have to like trust is not like some, you know,
however many digit long alphanumeric like public key ID. It's like an email address. It's like
di@python.org. So you can like be pretty sure that someone hasn't, you know, and someone can still
lose access to that, that identity via like compromise of that account. But it's like a
little, it's much, much easier to use, sign and maintain. And it's a little bit less likely that,
that that actual identity is going to get compromised.
Yeah, OK, very interesting.
Just stepping back a moment.
Here's the one that I was thinking of.
Sorry, it was NPM, not PyPI.
NPM libraries colors and fakers sabotage and protest
by maintainer, a person named Marek Squires.
And follow it up quickly from that.
We have.
The resident of Queens home suspected in bomb making materials,
arrested Mark Squires and so on.
So like this is what I was talking about when I'm saying like the no amount of
signing or, you know, a two FAA is going to help against this.
And it's just something.
I mean, it's just I think it's part of the deal.
If you accept code from people, you got to vet that.
I've essentially always said,
the API makes no guarantees.
You can't trust anything that's on it.
You need to take your own steps to learn and build trust and things that are on there.
We can give you some tools to help you do that.
But like, yeah, essentially you're giving someone commit access to your project,
your application, whatever, like you're allowing them to introduce code
into your project and run alongside your application.
What are your thoughts on private hosted package systems
like PyPI dev server or whatever,
those where you can create the local ones
and maybe even mirror stuff from PyPI?
- Yeah, I mean, if you're gonna do like a really robust
like auditing pipeline where you pull stuff
from public PyPI, you spend some time looking at it,
you maybe run it through some tests
and then you introduce it to your private server,
that's a really good way to like insulate yourself
from a couple of different types of attacks,
like dependency confusion attacks,
typo squatting, that kind of thing.
Like if you're pointing your install at a private server
that just doesn't have any of that stuff on it
because you have manually curated it,
then yeah, I mean, that's a pretty good practice.
And so like a lot of people like Artifactory,
Google Cloud, Artifactory, all those things,
like they're all sort of similar in that regard.
- I guess related to that is if you automatically install
the latest continuously, that maybe puts you
at a higher level of risk than if you choose to upgrade
at some point to a package,
like pinning versus not pinning, basically.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly.
- Yeah, okay.
Let's see, we're getting pretty short on time here, Dustin.
What else can we cover?
I know maybe pip audit or scorecard,
or what do you wanna focus on for a couple of minutes here?
- Well, yeah, let me just quickly say that like Sixth Store,
we built a Python client,
so you can pip install Sixth Store
and then sign, verify, do whatever from there.
And I'm super excited to say that like
the upcoming Python 3.11 release is,
the releases are usually signed with GPG,
but we're gonna start signing it with Sixth Door as well,
the release maintainer.
- Oh, nice. - Pablo.
- Can it be signed with two things at once?
I guess it can.
- Yeah, multiple people can sign it.
So we're just gonna have their release manager sign it,
but yeah, that's super exciting.
Yeah, so another like area
that we've been working on a lot lately,
I've been working on this around vulnerability auditing
or remediation.
So we have a new tool called pip Audit.
It's not part of pip right now, and there's some discussion
about whether it should be or not.
But essentially, this is a tool that
allows you to audit your local environment, your Docker
container requirements file, whatever, for known
vulnerabilities.
Not like unknown vulnerabilities,
but stuff that's been known, reported, and either fixed
or upgraded.
So it'll tell you essentially if it finds a CVE or something
like that.
But this also uses a Python-specific advisory
database that we built that pairs with the open source
vulnerability service and yeah, it works pretty well.
I'm pretty pleased with it.
I would like encourage everyone to just like run it
on their machine and see what vulnerabilities you have
like lurking about right now,
but also like integrate it into your CI pipeline,
like run an audit, just make sure that, you know,
your application is not gonna like have a vulnerability
introduced into it.
Pairs really nicely with like depend upon things
like that as well.
Yeah, and like, I don't know, there's a bunch of other stuff like working on Salsa, if you're
not familiar with Salsa, it's essentially like a framework for thinking about how secure
your build pipeline is when you're producing, publishing artifacts.
So if you're a maintainer, you might think about whether tampering is possible, that
kind of thing.
This is sort of a way just to sort of think about how good of a job the build pipeline
is doing in that regard.
>> Yeah.
Build pipelines are a little scary.
- Yeah, yeah, a little bit. - I mean, they have a huge value,
but they're also, you could sneak stuff in
without even actually changing the code
of the original repo and all sorts of stuff.
- Yeah, exactly.
Yeah, I don't know. - I saw this was managed by,
or like in collaboration with TrailerBits,
and also you're a maintainer.
What's the origin story of PipAudit?
- Yeah, yeah.
So TrailerBits is a security consultancy.
They've done a lot of work in the Python space
and software security space for a long time now.
folks like William Woodruff were actually involved in
way back when implementing two-factor
and some other stuff on PyPI.
So my team, open source security team at Google,
we've hired them as contractors to do some of this work
and do some maintenance,
build these open source projects, that kind of thing.
So you'll see William and Alex and some other folks
all over these projects
because they've been working really hard
to make them really useful and work really well
and be really secure.
- Yeah, fantastic.
Let's maybe just round things out with the stuff on the PEP,
various PEPs.
- Oh yeah, so yeah, I've been--
- Maybe the API, yeah, let's go through the PEPs real quick
then we'll probably have covered enough.
- Yeah, I stuck my nose in the PEPs recently.
Yeah, I think most of these are,
I've like provided some like minimal input into them.
I can't say, claim that I authored them myself,
but what I'm super excited about is PEP 621.
So this is a way to do essentially static metadata
for Python packages.
So this includes source distributions,
which means that you don't have to use setup.py anymore.
If you don't know why you don't need to use setup.py anymore,
it's essentially arbitrary code execution
at install time, which is super scary.
It should not happen.
So yeah, 6.21--
>>Luis: Pair that thought with this resident of Queens
arrested for bomb making.
Like, do you want to have that person running
arbitrary code on your machine?
Probably no.
- Add it and install it.
- Or in production, in production.
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
So I actually just saw, right before I joined this,
I saw a tweet from Prajan that like,
Setup Tools has full support for this.
There's a bunch of folks that have been working
really hard on it, so yeah, it's essentially like,
you don't need to use setup.py anymore,
which is really nice.
And like a lot of tools have sort of converged
on pyproject.toml as the sort of best standard
for metadata and configuration,
so like it's nice to see that conversions.
Yeah, it's great.
Shout out to like Brett, I think mostly led this PEP hit.
He did an amazing job.
And then-- - Yeah, yeah, very cool.
- 691 is exciting as well.
So PyPI has a couple of different APIs.
Most of them are not standardized.
One of them that is standardized is the simple API,
which is essentially just an HTML page
and tools like-- - Yeah.
It's kind of insane, but if you go to a simple--
- Oh, are you really gonna do it?
- Yeah, that's gonna blow up your browser for sure.
'Cause like essentially, yeah.
So tools don't actually use this page,
they use the individual pages for these projects.
But yeah, I think tools like Pip
essentially have to parse HTML to like interact with PyPI
and that it's not great.
Like it used to work okay, it doesn't scale well now.
So we're in the process of like standardizing
a lot of our JSON APIs and one of them that we sort of did.
And Donald led this path with some input from Prajan
and Cooper and myself, essentially like the same data,
the same API, same files, everything that pip needs
that's not HTML, it's just JSON.
So they can use standard library or JSON parser
to request and get this and do the stuff
that pip needs to do to be pip.
- Yeah, probably make it a little more efficient,
easier for other people to consume, right?
- Yeah, yeah.
- And is that something that you encourage
other applications to go mess with PyPI APIs
or is it it's public, but we'd rather you don't mess with it?
What are your thoughts?
>>So I'd say the stuff that we have standardized,
definitely you can depend on it.
It will continue to exist.
And by standardizing it, we've said
this is what you should expect.
And unless we change the standard,
that's what it's going to continue to do.
We have other APIs that existed before we
were standardizing stuff.
There's a legacy JSON API.
There's this XML RPC API that's such a nightmare to maintain.
We've kept them running just because a lot of people
and like, for example, Poetry uses this,
like kind of our unofficial JSON API.
And yeah, I mean, there's times when we need to do stuff
to that because it like isn't scaling right,
or there's trade-offs that we need to make.
And it's like, well, like we're probably gonna have
to break someone in order to like keep this afloat.
But like with things like these standard APIs,
like we've spent a lot of time designing them,
planning them, standardize them,
like those are definitely 100% cool to integrate against.
- Okay, fantastic.
Traditionally on these peps, you'll see it's accepted
and planned for this version of Python.
This one doesn't have that, right?
'Cause it just goes against the web app, right?
- Yeah, this is a packaging pep.
So we use the same processes, CPython
for their Python enhancements, but yeah,
this is about packaging.
So it doesn't necessarily tie to an individual Python.
- You don't ship it to a binary that people get, right?
- Well, in a way we do, like pip,
ship support for it in a binary.
So yeah, and it's implemented.
Like this exists on PyPI now.
Pip uses this now.
- If I have the latest pip on my machine
and I pip install something or do pip actions,
which does it hit the old simple
or does it hit this new one now?
- If I'm remembering correctly,
the support's been added to pip.
It might not, I think it's been released.
Yeah, I'm pretty sure.
I could be wrong.
I'm not a pip maintainer, but yeah.
- Yeah, sure.
Okay, cool.
And we have one more to touch on.
- Oh yeah.
I mean, you only really care about this
if you're really working with PyPI,
but we're gonna have a new,
like I said, we're standardizing all our APIs.
So there's gonna be a new upload API.
The existing upload API has a lot of problems.
It's fairly old.
It's essentially just a big post request
with a ton of metadata in it.
So this should be a little bit better
and also enable things like draft releases
where you can publish something to PyPI
that's in draft state.
You can review it, practice installing it
before you actually publish it.
And when it's in draft, it'll allow you to overwrite it.
you know, like do things that we don't actually--
- Fix the problem, yeah.
- Yeah, yeah, exactly. - Okay.
Is this an alternative replacement
or just another safety net compared to say like
the test PyPI versus production PyPI?
- You mean like the draft stuff?
Yeah, I think it would be--
- Yeah, yeah, like would stuff automatically upload
and draft and you gotta flip it
so that you don't accidentally publish something
that's not ready or?
- Yeah. - 'Cause you forgot
to use the test PyPI.
- Yeah, yeah, test PyPI is kind of weird
because it actually existed to be our test environment
for PyPI, 'cause we didn't have a great test suite
with the old PyPI.
And now it sort of hangs around as a playground sandbox.
We don't care.
But yeah, some people do have it in their production,
in their release flow, like upload here first,
make sure that it works and then go to...
So I think this will be a better use case
and sort of consolidate folks to use PyPI for everything
and we can eventually shut down test PyPI
Because yeah, it's not as useful as it could be.
>>Yeah, for sure.
All right, well, I think that's probably all the time we
got to talk about this.
We could go on and on.
We only touched on some of the stuff
that we're thinking about talking about.
But before we're done, maybe answer the final two questions.
>>Yeah, so--
>>Yeah, go ahead.
- Yeah, yeah. - My favorite editor.
- If you're gonna write some code, yeah, what editor do you use?
- Yeah, I do almost everything in BI
and have since I sort of started doing any kind of development work.
That said, I kind of try to do as much as I can in the browser,
in the GitHub UI.
I get speed bumps there sometimes.
It can't be quite as fast, but for little stuff,
I kind of like seeing what I can do there.
- Yeah, right on.
Do you ever press the dot in GitHub?
- Yeah, all the time, love the dot.
- Yeah, the dot converts it to like
a hosted VS Code basically.
- Yep.
- And then package you wanna give a shout out to?
- So my biased answer to this is check out
the SIG store package on PyPI and the pip-audit package.
Those are both stuff that I've been working on,
my team has been working on.
I'm really proud of the way that they work
and we're gonna be working on integrating those
into like more use cases, more developer patterns.
Check them out, like try them out.
I'd love to get feedback on them.
- Yeah, fantastic.
And they seem to fill like a super big,
a super important hole that sort of backfill
some of the security and supply chain stability and so on.
- Yep.
And then I think my unbiased answer,
I did want to give a shout out to the pip-tools,
PIP-tools project on PyPI.
That's maintained by the Jazz Band team.
So that's just like a roving, revolving door of maintainers,
but they do a good job of keeping it up and running.
And it satisfies this really, I think, important use case
that a lot of people don't do with their Python dependencies,
which is like essentially allows you to compile
your dependencies into a requirements file
that has all the versions pinned,
all the sub dependencies there,
hashes, which is like, please like use PIPs hash checker,
hash all your dependencies.
It definitely protects you against
another whole class of attacks.
But yeah, pip-tools is great for that.
I would love a future where that was part of pip.
I don't know if that's gonna exist or not,
up to maintain it, but yeah, it's super cool.
I have switched to using pip-tools for all of my packages
and I love it.
It's fantastic.
- Nice.
Yeah, me too.
We use it for PyPI.
We use it for a bunch of other stuff.
Yeah.
- Indeed.
All right, final call to action.
People want to get more involved,
maybe make their things more secure.
- Yeah, I'd say call to action is go to
pypi.org/security-key-giveaway.
See if you're eligible as a critical maintainer
for security keys.
If not, please just turn on 2FA anyway while you're there
as a maintainer, I'd really appreciate that.
But yeah, I mean, I don't know,
keep your eye on the security space.
I think like there's a lot of interesting stuff happening,
a lot of focus, a lot of resources going into it right now.
It's a good time to like try and adopt
some additional security,
both to protect yourself, your users, everything.
So yeah.
- Yeah, I definitely second that.
Dustin, thanks so much for coming and sharing all this.
This has been great to talk about, get an insight
in some of the ideas and thoughts
behind all these decisions.
It's great.
>> Yeah, for sure, Michael.
It's always really great to talk to you.
So glad to be here.
>> Yeah, you too.
Thanks again.
See ya.
>> Yeah, see ya.
Bye.